chore: add EVM extensions article (#13)
evmos/academy: docs/articles/advanced/evm-extensions.md

---

> sidebar_position: 10

Reviewer: Can you order this in alpha order please?

---

> # EVM Extensions

Reviewer: I think it would be nice to specify this article covers Staking and Distribution logic. I think would allow us to create more guides on EE in the future with things like IBC, etc.

---
sidebar_position: 10
---

# EVM Extensions

Learn how to use Evmos EVM extensions to include Evmos and Cosmos SDK modules functionalities in your smart contracts.

> :::tip

Reviewer 2: Would move the tip to just above ln23
> This article presents a step-by-step guide

**Note**: Not sure what EVM extensions are?
EVM extensions are smart contracts that are compiled and deployed right at the EVM initialization.
These have predefined addresses and, according to their logic, can be classified as stateful or stateless.
When they change the state of the chain (transactions)
or access state data (queries), extensions are considered "stateful";
when they don't, they're "stateless".

> Find a [list of the available EVM extensions in the Evmos documentation site](https://docs.evmos.org/develop/build-a-dapp/build-smart-contracts/evm_extensions).

Reviewer 3: Does not include stateful extensions at the moment

Author: Yeah, this will be updated on v13 release

Author: [here's the PR](https://github.com/evmos/docs/pull/70) to add those

Let's get started!

## Prerequisites

- Know how to use [Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/).

## Resources

You will need this material to code along:

- [Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/)
- EVM extensions interfaces: [Distribution.sol](https://github.com/evmos/extensions/blob/main/precompiles/stateful/Distribution.sol)
  & [Staking.sol](https://github.com/evmos/extensions/blob/main/precompiles/stateful/Staking.sol)
- EVM extensions common types and authorization interfaces:
  [Types.sol](https://github.com/evmos/extensions/blob/main/precompiles/common/Types.sol),
  [Authorization.sol](https://github.com/evmos/extensions/blob/main/precompiles/common/Authorization.sol) &
  [GenericAuthorization.sol](https://github.com/evmos/extensions/blob/main/precompiles/common/GenericAuthorization.sol)
- Example contract that uses the EVM extensions:
  [SimpleStaker.sol](https://github.com/evmos/extensions/blob/main/examples/simple-staker/contracts/SimpleStaker.sol) contract

## Approvals

Before executing any transaction using the EVM Extensions,
the user interacting with the smart contract must first approve these.

> In case of staking transactions, should specify the amount allowed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In case of staking transactions, they should specify the amount allowed.
```

## Step 4: Get some funds

For this step, you have two options:

### Option 1: Fund your MetaMask account

Using a terminal window, send some funds to your MetaMask address from one of the preconfigured keys on the local node.
To do this, use following commands:

```bash
ADDR=<YOUR_METAMASK_ADDR>
BECH32ADDR=$(evmosd debug addr $ADDR | grep "Bech32 Acc" | cut -c 13-56)
```

This will convert the hex address into the Bech32 format, which can be used in bank transfers using the CLI:

```bash
evmosd tx bank send dev0 $BECH32ADDR 100000000000000000000aevmos \
--home $HOME/.tmp-evmosd \
--from dev0 \
--fees 200000000000000aevmos \
--gas auto \
-b block \
-y
```

After this transaction was successfully executed, you should see the balance in your MetaMask wallet.

### Option 2: Import keys from keyring

You can use the default `dev0` account which has a lot of funds.
Use this command to export the `dev0` private key:

```bash
evmosd keys unsafe-export-eth-key dev0 --keyring-backend test --home ~/.tmp-evmosd 
```

Copy the private key returned.
Then select the "Import Account" option in MetaMask
and select Private Key type.

> Paste the private key and clic "Import".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Paste the private key and click "Import".
```

![add account](/img/mm_add_acc.png)
![import private key](/img/mm_priv_key.png)

## Step 5: Deploy the `SimpleStaker.sol` contract

- Go to ***Deploy & Run Transactions*** option on Remix side bar
- Configure Remix Environment to use ***Injected Provider - MetaMask***
- Select the account with funds from the previous step
- Make sure the `SimpleStaker` compiled contract is selected in the ***CONTRACT*** field
- Deploy the smart contract by pressing the ***Deploy*** button & approving the transaction on Metamask.

![prepare deployment](/img/remix_prepare_deploy.png)

Upon a successful deployment,

> you should see the contract with it’s exposed methods being listed under ***Deployed Contracts***.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
you should see the contract with its exposed methods being listed under ***Deployed Contracts***.
```
